Now, let's continue to move forward in this edit, and now I want to talk about overlays so we can
see here and actually you can also just take notice of looking at our pacing change.
We're going shot cha cha cha cha cha cha shots compared to the intro where here you can actually see
in the timeline that you can see these beats, right.
These moments where she's speaking.
Boom, boom.
They look like big mountains in our audio.
And you can see this kind of smooth audio at this park.
And we have a lot slower or less amount of shots at this smooth part.
And as the energy picks up in her voice, boom, boom, boom.
So that's just something to take notice of.
We're analyzing, watching and listening to the audio and reading that audio waveform almost as a I'm
doing this a lot now.
I don't know.
I almost as a sheet of music that's showing us how the edit should come together.
Now, that's not always was we talking about, but what we want to talk about is overlays.
So let's take a look at this shot, taking a deep breath and bring honor and dignity to your spine.
Breathe out.
Without.
OK, so I'm sure you noticed these nice, cool looking.
I'm going to have to turn down the resolution because these are such high res files, it's starting
to make my computer all the fan on my computer is going crazy, but it's actually starting to make the
screen capture.
Lagan and I don't want it.
Lagging for your enjoyment is not good.
So I'm going to turn that down to half.
And yeah, let's take a look at these overlays.
So if I double click this overlay, it's going to bring it up over here.
And this is essentially what I'm adding on top of the footage.
This one is another one that we have right here.
It's filling this part of the frame.
Looks really nice.
But by itself, it doesn't look all that interesting.
So what are we doing here?
So basically, I have this overlay.
And by itself, it just has a black background.
But if I click it, go up to the effects control.
Go down to the blending mode, which we've discussed.
Oh, I promise it was not going to repeat that.
OK, but yes, go to the blending mode.
And my favorite is you screen for film burns and other overlays that are similar.
We can use lighton.
It'll just slightly change the way it looks.
It isn't ever look as natural to me.
For me, like I don't like that.
If we did darken, it would completely change the vibe completely.
We don't want that.
If we did add I don't like that because it over exposes the footage too much.
You could see all this green and that's just not a good look.
So for film burns, I always use screen as the blending mode.
That's what's creating this really cool, sunny, warm kind of feeling.
Now, you don't want to just put film burns wherever in the edit.
You want to do it intentionally.
Same with all transitions it with all overlays.
The reason I decided to add it here is because the coloring of this footage is like, look at the warmth
and the light in this shot.
And if you see this shot, it's got plenty of feeling and color going on.
But if I were to remove these two overlays when it comes to these shots, there is just something missing.
Even with the color correction, I mean, this is without color correction.
There's a lot missing there.
But with the color correction frame on intimidators, we just needed something.
So, boom, we drop in these overlays to your spine.
And it takes a little bit of fine tuning, you know, you can, you know, drag them out and find the
right moment of the visual that you want to have.
Like, you know, there's different moments with the film burns that you can move around and sync them
up so that they come on into screen, you know, synched up to the words or to the music.
Without.
So that was the process there.
Now they do work well also for creating a kind of transition between shots.
So this is going to come up and boom, as the flash from the film is going away.
That's a perfect time to go into your next cut, boom.
So without.
It's OK.
Not bad, but, you know, we're stinking up the movement of our legs here, too, as well.
She's stepping forward and then she's stepping forward here.
So we're completing her motion in two different shots, very similar, actually, to the match cut that
we were talking about between the hand in the hand, little details that make this flow really well,
like these flow seamlessly into each other.
That's why the Matko.
What else benefits or takes that to another level is having something like a film burn that's flashing
and right as these to transition into each other.
Wash.
Right.
And we have another film Burn as well, if we scoot forward in the edit.
So close your eyes.
OK, so the reason I did that is because this shot is actually is stock footage shot.
So it had the perfect kind of framing that I wanted.
It's a really cool macro kind of feel where all of a sudden this big, beautiful eyes in frame when
she's talking about closing your eyes creates a powerful moment.
Now, I did this film Burn, because this is a stock footage shot that didn't really match up with the
rest of the footage.
So if I hit play.
So we're at the beach.
This has a certain kind of softness to it and coloring.
And then we cut to this studio lighting shot of someone's eye is pretty abrupt, especially when we
go to, again, sunny daylily beach footage.
And so, boom, boom, it's OK, you know?
Song.
And close your eyes.
It's OK.
But this just seems really out of place, so if I turn back on our film Burns and let it play some and
close your eyes.
It really does a good job of blending together and making it more of an artistic cutaway shot than what
the heck, what is this friend am I doing here?
That's definitely not at the beach.
So you can use the overlays to create more of a blending between shots, and then you can also use it
to warm up the footage, especially because most almost all film burns have that orange reddish tones
that when you drag it in turn the blending mode to screen.
It's going to do a great job of adding those warm tones on top of your footage.